# Digital Culture and Data Feminism

# DH Project- Fan Studies in Fanfiction and Heterotopia

Fanfiction, at its core, is content written by fans of a text to which they generally have a lot of passion for. The original source of what the fanfiction is based on varies immensely, for example fanfiction can be inspired by: books, movies, television shows, video games, celebrities, and essentially anything that a person most often enjoys and/or is passionate about. Fanfiction can also be written as a joke or contrarily, which is why I hesitate to prescribe it as purely out of enjoyment or passion. For many, fanfiction is an extension of the original text source that serves as a way to enjoy more content that would otherwise not exist. Similarly, fanfiction is a creative outlet for people to sometimes explore a fictional storyworld in an alternative way to how it is explored in the original source material. 

In this project, I will explore why people use fanfiction as a source of queer representation, comfort, and self-identification, particularly in a sociopolitical climate where queer representation is often met with hostility. I will be demonstrating how using fanfiction as a way to self-identify within a text and construct representation is heterotopic in nature. Throughout the essay, I will be analyzing fandom discourse from my own experience in the Dragon Age fandom concerning popular characters and a fictional religion such as Dorian Pavus, Alistair Theirin, and the Qun.

#### What is Fanfiction?
***“Appropriative writing takes many shapes, and fan fiction, the term originating in the1960s to describe stories published in homemade fanzines, is but the latest manifestation of the  desire to concretely interact with a pre-existing narrative. Fanfic thus has affinities with a wide range of practices, finding their outlet in allographs prequels and sequels, but also in works that retell events from an alternative character's point of view, or that "borrow" a character and transpose her or him into a new setting and a new narrative arc” -Leavenworth 42*** 


### Sociopolitical Issues and Fandom Discourse
Having canonical representations of LGBTQ characters and relationships is important to the people within this community, and a lack of representation has shown to be harmful to those marginalized (Llewellyn 2350). Despite fanfiction having freedom for queer authors to write their own stories, these kinds of queer fanfictions are created out of an absence of canonical representation (Llewellyn 2350). Although canonical queer representation has increased over the years, there is also an increase in negative representation such as stereotyping and repetitive and harmful tropes concerning LGBTQ people (Llewellyn 2350). As such fanfictions stand as a pertinent part of fandom, as the reimagined narrative adapted from canonical texts often reflect real queer experiences and perspective– an important cultural artifact (Llewellyn 2350). It is also integral to note that “that fanfictions are central to lesbian fandom identities exploration and normalization that can be missing from the physical world or media texts. Broader LGBTQ research suggests that the retelling and reimagining of stories can be a place for LGBTQ identity exploration and may also be a place for political activism” (Llewellyn 2350). 

*"Problematic" content:*
I use quotes on the word problematic, because what makes something problematic is entirely subjective, and at times myopic (as I will explore later). That is not to say that fanfiction or fanart cannot be problematic (if it affirms racism or sexual depictions of minors for example, this is a problem), but that the term is easily misused by individuals who disagree with perhaps the depiction of a character or inspiration for a fictional religion because it does not suit their own interpretation.

One example of fan discourse concerning problematic fan-content that I have encountered is the heterosexualization of a canonically homosexual character named Dorian Pavus in Dragon Age: Inquisition. For brief context, Dragon Age is an RPG game series set in a magical medieval fantasy setting. There is one playable character and they are accompanied by companions as they complete their journey. The playable character can become friends, enemies, and/or lovers with their companions, which sometimes impacts the story heavily. There is an approval system, so a companion's reaction to a choice the player makes can vary greatly depending on whether they have low or high approval. This particular change of sexuality with Dorian is more complicated for fans to come to a consensus with, because the character Dorian has a storyline that, with enough character approval, explores how Dorian’s father did not approve of his sexuality and essentially attempted conversion therapy against Dorian’s wishes. The following posts hold similar beliefs: 
## Online Artefacts
### Baking Communities

## AI-Generated Nonsense

